ok so now that we've integrated scene
builder into intellij let's go ahead
and create a new javafx project and
see it working and click on create new
project I'm going to select javafx
making sure javafx supplication is
selected and for this one we're just
going to call this scene builder the
project click on finish making a space
here let's expand this out so we can see our
files i'm going to double-click the
sample . fXML and the first thing you
should notice down here at the bottom
now is that we've got this new
scene builder tab in the past we've only
had text but with now got a scene
builder tab as well if we click on the
scene builder you notice that it's
actually popped up
we've scene builder now within IntelliJ
that's almost the same user interface
that we saw when we run this the
standalone scene application but the
good thing here now is that scene builder is
actually aware of our sample . fxml file
that's actually already loaded the
contents of that file and any changes we
make within the scene builder will be
saved to the sample fxml file and also
vice versa
now when running the application
standalone we also could have loaded the
sample fxml file from our
project and then any changes will be
saved to sample . fxml but I think
you'll agree it's far more convenient to
do it all with IntelliJ the ide makes
the Association without us actually
having to tell the scene builder which of
fxml file we're working on and its pretty
cool
one thing to point out that with this
integration with IntelliJ is that can be
a bit flaky sometimes for example
sometimes we can change the property and
sometimes we can't and we've got to go to
the fxml file to do it but fortunately its
really easy to flip between the scene
builds and the fxml file in
IntelliJ and just by matter of clicking
on text in scene builder so it's pretty
quick anyway and the two tabs are kept
in sync and again as a backup you can
also use the scene builder stand alone
executable if your prefer outside of IntelliJ
now if you've got a window open down the
bottom which you shouldn't have
make sure you close it to give the scene
builder as much room as possible within
the ide let's start taking a bit of a
look at the scene builder user interface
now can click on the scene builder tab
again obviously the largest area is this
middle content area that's the area we
used to build our user interface on the
left-hand side up here to the top left
we can see all the controls and elements
that we can actually use in the user
interface now some of this should be
familiar if we scroll down the list
there because we actually use those in
various videos in this section
containers which we currently got open lists
the you know all the layouts and
other classes that will contain ui
controls such as scroll pane grid pane
and h box and next to click on
controls that contains the controls such
as button and label underneath going
down menu that contains all the UI
classes we can use to build menus and
also got a miscellaneous section
there it's really containing items that
don't really fit anywhere else like the
tooltip class for example and obviously
we've got these other ones shapes charts
and the 3d section and we haven't really
covered those in this section because
they're more advanced topics but they
are there if you want to start using them at
the bottom of the left hand side you can
see this area here that's separate from
the list of UI elements right now
you can see it contains a grid pane
zero by zero so this area displays the
scene graph for the user interface in
the content area if we switch back to
the contents of the fxml file by clicking
on the text tab down here at the bottom
we can see that we can see the grid pane
and IntelliJ always generates by
default now since the scene builder is
displaying the contents of this file it
of this fxml file it knows
about the grid pane so just to confirm
that lets actually change the grid pane
to a border pane in the file in the fxml
file so make that a border pane
like so now we switch
back to the scene builder tab at this
point will actually get this error and
sometimes this will work and display the
border pane in the scene graph area with
a warning icon but other times you'll
see what
happen here the actual exception the
stack trace for an exception and if you
think about it you'll recall that the
border pane doesn't support the h gap
and V gap properties so when the scene
builder tries to load the changes we
made to the fxml file its
actually failing and we are getting the exception
so we go back to the fxml file and if you
remove remove the h gap and the v gap
properties from the border pane as
well as the alignment delete those all
out because obviously those three aren't
supported by border pane and if in fact
intelliJ was telling us about
highlighting them in red that was the case
but now that we've done if we switch
back to the scene builder notice now
that we see the scene builder user
interface and will see that the scene
graph down here to the left hand bottom
of the screen displays the border pane
and all its positions so let's actually
switch our layout back to the grid
pane back to text again I'm just going
to undo those changes go back to how it
was by default before making those
changes theirs our grid pane again and again
back to the scene builder again and you
can see we can see the grid pane
showing again in the scene graph area
right at this point let's now a select
the grid pane in the scene graph the area
by clicking on it now when we do so you
probably saw that to the area on the
right hand side of the content area
displays the properties we can actually
set on the grid pane in my case and
maybe in your case you might have to
adjust the screen so you can actually
read all the various properties and their
names i'm just going to expand it out so
I can read it all
that's probably enough to see what we
need to see it in terms of the contents
on this right-hand pane which will call
the settings pane we've got what's
actually going to show up will depend on
whatever selected in the scene graph and
it's actually divided into three areas
under properties the first component
here will find the various properties
that don't actually affect how the
controls are laid out within the pane
for example you can see the gridlines
visible property doesn't alter the
positioning of the controls within the
grid pane now the layout section which
you can get access to by clicking on
over here and opening that up
well that's got all the properties that
do affect the positioning of the
controls and it's here that we can find
that
h gap and the v gap properties and
the final section down here which I click is the
code section and that's where we can
actually assign an fx ID and also
associated event handlers within the
user interface element
alright so that's a bit of a whirlwind
tour of the basics of scene builder
going to finish the video here in the
next video we're going to start actually
generating something creating a bit of a
layout just to see how the tools work so
let's start working on that in the next
video